





























Creating Assets









































Home
Products
Support

















Beta











 


  


         



 














                Contents x








                                                    True-Assets
                                                






Powered by




















   
















   











Creating Assets from Directory



09 Feb 2023




                                3
                                Minutes to read
                            



                                Contributors
                            











                    Share this 

















 Print




 Share







 Dark


 Light





 PDF







Contents











Creating Assets from Directory





Updated on 09 Feb 2023




                                            3
                                            Minutes to read
                                        



                                            Contributors
                                        












 Print




 Share







 Dark


 Light





 PDF










This feature is to be used when you have other .blend files (historical) that you wish to take data from (Objects, Materials, Worlds etc.) and convert them into Assets to be accessible from any new instance of Blender via the "asset browser".Initial settingsCatalog: This dropdown option will allow you to put the chosen .blends into a new or existing catalog.Save as a Single Blend file: This will merge all the selected .blends into a single one (good for bunching similar assets into one .blend.Filters: This will enable the options below. Disable if you wish to make everything compatible to be marked in the chosen .blend files.FiltersWhat to save: Choose between everything in the file, data that is NOT already marked as an asset, or just ALREADY marked assets.Objects: This will open up options for all object types.Thumbnail shading: Choose the type of thumbnail rendering you wish to have between Solid (grey unlit); Material (unlit material preview); Eevee (lit Eevee render); or Cycles (Path traced lit). Choosing between Material, Eevee, and Cycles will provide you with camera options and the option to add a white ground plane. If the ground plane is not chosen, the image will be rendered with a transparent background.Thumbnail RenderingPlease be aware that different render engines may increase the process time. Eevee may not always be the fastest. Cycles can be quicker in come cases.Object Data types:Selecting the following will bring them in to be marked as an asset. (Read below for Kitbash options) Clear materials: This has caused some confusion in the past where users thought this clears the materials from the object, but this is different from what it does. It only removes their asset data, so they don’t appear in the object section of the True-Asset library. Move Origin to Bottom: Enabling this option will identify the lowest face of the object based on its average data and set that point as the origin point.Materials: Selecting this will allow materials to be brought in as their asset type (THIS DOES NOT MEAN THE MATERIALS ALREADY ON OBJECTS): Minimum Nodes: True-Assets tries to avoid materials that it thinks are not important, like default materials and materials with less than a specified number of nodes. You can set this number using this field. Node Groups: Currently, only Shader node groups are supported(though you can save Geometry Node groups by using right-click>’ Mark as Asset’ in the geometry node editor). The thumbnails for Node Groups are rendered using a Shader ball. You can choose the render engine you want to use for thumbnails since some nodes (like bevel) only work in Cycles.Worlds: This will bring in any "world" data that was in the source fileKitbash OptionsKitbash AssetsThis function was built to enable easy and fast asset marking for kitbash content from KB3D. Join: This will take all the "parented" or "collections", which are individual parts of a larger 'piece' and join them together, so they are one singular object. This will stop all the broken parts being imported, which will not come in at their original orientation, meaning you will have to rebuild the larger sets manually.Collection: This will, instead of joining the parts, make them collections (similar to how the KB3D file is set up). Collections cannot be edited once dragged into a scene unless you uncheck the "instance" checkmark in the lower left of the 3d viewport.Apply rotation: This will apply the orientation of the content in the source file so that when you save it, it will be the right way up. (We advise keeping this checked)Clear parent: This will clear the parent empties and delete them upon importing. (We advise keeping this checked)   Change displacement type: This will swap the displacement type from "Displacement" to "bump" this fixes the issues of the mesh edges not lining up. (We advise keeping this checked) Remove Subsurf Modifiers: This will remove any subsurf modifiers applied by KB3D when importing from the source file. This will speed up the process and also make your viewport more performant when using the assets, as the default value enabled by KB3D adds a lot of unnecessary geometry. (We advise keeping this checked)  Data management optionsPack External Data: Pack all the image textures and other data. This helps if you plan to move the source files and their data later, which can break texture paths.Force Regenerate Previews: Some assets can already have custom previews attached to them, so if you don’t want the addon to override them, keep this unchecked.What to do for existing files: These are options for managing potential duplicate data. SKIP will ignore anything that has the same data as assets already in your library; OVERRIDE will overwrite the content already in your asset library if any data matches the new import; CREATE NEW will rename the data to ensure no loss of data or failed imports due to matching data already in your library.







Was this article helpful?


 Yes
        

 No
        






Thank you for your feedback! Our team will get back to you


How can we improve this article?
Your feedback




Need more information



Difficult to understand



Inaccurate or irrelevant content



Missing/broken link



Others



Comment
Comment (Optional)

Character limit : 500
Please enter your comment

Email (Optional)
Email


 Notify me about change



Please enter a valid email



Cancel


 



What's Next



                                    Create Assets from FBX
                                












Table of contents






                                                        Initial settings
                                                    



                                                        Filters
                                                    



                                                        Kitbash Options
                                                    



                                                        Data management options
                                                    












 





















Documents



Tutorials



Store



Discord


























Copyright ©2023 True-VFX. All rights reserved



Home



Cookies



Contact























