



























Installing AmbientCG









































Home
Products
Support

















Beta











 


  


         



 














                Contents x








                                                    True-Assets
                                                






Powered by




















   
















   











Installing AmbientCG



13 Mar 2023




                                1
                                Minute to read
                            



                                Contributors
                            











                    Share this 

















 Print




 Share







 Dark


 Light





 PDF







Contents











Installing AmbientCG





Updated on 13 Mar 2023




                                            1
                                            Minute to read
                                        



                                            Contributors
                                        












 Print




 Share







 Dark


 Light





 PDF










The User PreferencesYou MUST go to the [addons] tab of the user preferences after installing True-Assets v4.0. Search for True-Assets and then from there we will address the steps that must be taken to get the AmbientCG library to appear in the Asset-Browser.Step 1:Open the Blender user preferences> Addons > True-Assets (If you have not installed yet, go to HERE)Step 2:Set a download location for the AmbientCG library to store assets you have used (shown in the red box in image above)Step 3:Open the True-Assets Directory location (Shown in yellow box) using the folder button to the right. This will open a file-viewer.Step 4:Either find a location that you wish for your True-Assets libraries to store if you have NOT already done so. OR, if you have already chosen one, just click [OKAY] in that file-viewer pop-up, to refresh True-assets to build the AmbientCG library. Step 5: Save the user preferences (Even if you have auto-save enabled) to ensure that the directories you have set, are set-up within Blender's filepath menu.MUST READYou need to follow these steps as shown, whether this is the first time you have installed True-Assets, or are an existing user of True-Assets. The Libraries will not update without a prompt from the user.The Asset BrowserNow you have completed the steps above, you can head to the Asset-Browser of Blender. Once there, you'll see the dropdowns for all the True-Asset's libraries, now including the AmbientCG library.Once you see this Library in the drop down, select it and follow the Steps on the next articleAmbientCG library not thereIf you can't see the AmbientCG library in the dropdown. Make sure that you have set the paths in the user prefs under True-Assets prefs and saved those preferences. Restart Blender!If you still cannot see them, please contact us on our Discord so we can troubleshoot this with you.







Was this article helpful?


 Yes
        

 No
        






Thank you for your feedback! Our team will get back to you


How can we improve this article?
Your feedback




Need more information



Difficult to understand



Inaccurate or irrelevant content



Missing/broken link



Others



Comment
Comment (Optional)

Character limit : 500
Please enter your comment

Email (Optional)
Email


 Notify me about change



Please enter a valid email



Cancel


 



What's Next



                                    First time use
                                












Table of contents






                                                        The User Preferences
                                                    



                                                        The Asset Browser
                                                    












 





















Documents



Tutorials



Store



Discord


























Copyright ©2023 True-VFX. All rights reserved



Home



Cookies



Contact























