



























Create Assets from FBX and OBJ









































Home
Products
Support

















Beta











 


  


         



 














                Contents x








                                                    True-Assets
                                                






Powered by




















   
















   











Create Assets from FBX



09 Feb 2023




                                1
                                Minute to read
                            



                                Contributors
                            











                    Share this 

















 Print




 Share







 Dark


 Light





 PDF







Contents











Create Assets from FBX





Updated on 09 Feb 2023




                                            1
                                            Minute to read
                                        



                                            Contributors
                                        












 Print




 Share







 Dark


 Light





 PDF










True-Assets allows users to create (mark) assets directly from source FBX or OBJ files. These files DO NOT need to already be inside a .blend file to be imported.FBX and OBJ import functionsBy Default, using either of these options will use Blender's built-in FBX and OBJ importer. Due to user requests, we integrated a bridge function in True-Assets, so that if you use the Better FBX addon, this can be used instead. This must be updated in the user preferencesCreate from FBXImport UIOnce you select this option, a blender file viewer will open. From here you need to either select a directory with FBX files in, OR select an FBX file. True-Assets can auto-import multiple files by recursively searching through sub-directories for the requested file types; just navigate to a directory that has sub-directories in with the needed files and then finish the process.Thumbnail shading: Choose the type of thumbnail rendering you wish to have between Solid (grey unlit); Material (unlit material preview); Eevee (lit Eevee render); or Cycles (Path traced lit). Choosing between Material, Eevee, and Cycles will provide you with camera options and the option to add a white ground plane. If the ground plane is not chosen, the image will be rendered with a transparent background.Thumbnail RenderingPlease be aware that different render engines may increase the process time. Eevee may not always be the fastest. Cycles can be quicker in come cases. Pack External Data: Pack all the image textures and other data. This helps if you plan to move the source files and their data later, which can break texture paths.What to do for existing files:These are options for managing potential duplicate data. SKIP will ignore anything that has the same data as assets already in your library; OVERRIDE will overwrite the content already in your asset library if any data matches the new import; CREATE NEW will rename the data to ensure no loss of data or failed imports due to matching data already in your library.NOTICEThese functions can be best explained using the Blender.org documents HERE. If you are using the Better FBX import module, then please use the documents they provide for help with the importer settings for FBX files.WE DO NOT HAVE ANY CONTROL OVER THESE OPTIONS. WE ONLY CALL THE SETTINGS FROM BLENDER (BETTER FBX)







Was this article helpful?


 Yes
        

 No
        






Thank you for your feedback! Our team will get back to you


How can we improve this article?
Your feedback




Need more information



Difficult to understand



Inaccurate or irrelevant content



Missing/broken link



Others



Comment
Comment (Optional)

Character limit : 500
Please enter your comment

Email (Optional)
Email


 Notify me about change



Please enter a valid email



Cancel


 



What's Next



                                    Create Assets from OBJ
                                












Table of contents






                                                        Create from FBX
                                                    












 





















Documents



Tutorials



Store



Discord


























Copyright ©2023 True-VFX. All rights reserved



Home



Cookies



Contact























